No Sudden Moves was fun and one of the stronger missions and a good highlight of quality level design - I wonder if Emil was involved in that, that is his strong suit and an area of design I believe him to be good at based on past work. The optional objectives were at least hidden behind dialogue options too! All from the same group, but better than being spoon-fed straight from the off. The stealth was rewarding, as we were using some of the optional methods to help progress, like releasing the zoo creatures. It isn’t explained why they aren’t hostile to us though. Lore oversight, but appreciated from a gameplay perspective.

A quest that a number have pointed to for an example as to "Is Constellation in the right ?" This guy says that he had been looking for an item such as The Artifact for a while, and it was his most prized possession.
[Constellation](Constellation.md) offered to trade him for it, and he refused. He was told that a Billionaire financially backs them and that they would give him a blank check for the item. Again, he has no interest as he says he is already rich in credits. He notes that he just wanted to show the item off and that was it. Now, I think most overlook this interaction due to how poorly the quest was laid out. You're forced into confrontation with him as you have to steal the [Artifacts](Artifacts.md) in front of him without alternatives.

But let's look at this for a moment. What if someone finds an Artifact and they don't want to part with it. Is Constellation and their goal Morally good if they are willing to harm or even kill people over these items ? What if a worldwide threat hits and they must have the Artifacts to use as a weapon against a force ? Can they keep their morals or would they need to bend the rules a bit to be at the top of the mountain

Just walking up to the guy and stealing his prized possession always felt crappy to me. Even if he is a pirate, it doesn't feel right. Probably doing the Settled Systems a favour, killing him and his crew though.

There's a real frontier, kill or be killed mentality to [Constellation](Constellation.md), even though they are part of the settled systems. Without their apparently noble quest for the [Artifacts](Artifacts.md) they don’t really have a lot going for them.
I feel if we had stumbled on them just a few years earlier, we would have seen them as a ragtag band of alcoholics, failures, and vagabonds led by an uptight passive passive-aggressive soldier suffering from PTSD. It would have felt very Farscape or [Battlestar Galactica](Battlestar%20Galactica) and probably made me like everyone a lot more. 
Nobody pretending to be holier than thou is to be trusted. Bethesda should have leaned more into the moral ambiguity of them and maybe even allowed the PC to persuade some of the members to become more good or evil. Like with the old BioWare games that allowed you to do this with companions, changing their dialogue options and everything. 

Ends justify the means? It would be interesting to see more push into this darker side of [Constellation](Constellation.md), how it could be a slippery slope. Making him a pirate feels like a way to wash the players' hands of any guilt.