Who is tired of everything and just wanted to settle in one universe cause he found all this power hunting pointless in the end.

And what if I want to be like Pilgrim and stay in my universe? I go back, talk to my companions... Every single one tells me that they know, sooner or later I'll leave everyone behind and go through [Unity](Unity.md). I even tell my wife Andreja that she is all I need and I don't want to go. But she totally dismisses me and doesn't want to believe me. It's the same thing after completing each faction quest. They all have a preset preference that the game deems as right choice. Going through the [Unity](Unity.md) is something the game wants you to do.

Settling down: If you choose to not pursue power or step away from the [Unity](Unity.md), the game should have another story path/denouement (not conclusion) as long as you're already in NG+. This would be an acknowledgement of the path of the Pilgrim. Your companions shouldn't pressure you to go in anymore (because you're you already have at least once), and there should be a happy path where you retire from Constellation, or just keep doing radiant missions for them (or future DLC missions). But moving forward, you just live your life, without a need for an "end".

Subjective Literary analysis: You never really get to get answers you’d want. You don’t have to think too hard to understand their concept with the main quest, it’s not in riddle. The hunter is the pilgrim, he creates the religion, he knows where pilgrim is cause he is pilgrim. Pilgrim is the question you’d ask with infinite resets, why? It’s not a unique question, nothing we’ve never pondered, after multiple NGs you understand the hunter and pilgrim, they embody the questions and answers you’d have.