The idea of the Unity nullifies the rest of the game. Apathy is the natural response when you discover that the universe - all universes - are temporary. Your choices don’t matter, because whenever you please, we can walk through the Unity and reset our lives. We may eventually take [The_Hunter](Main%20Quest/The_Hunter.md)s route, realising how futile that is and settling down - but it is only that way by design. If you choose to ignore the unity, you too have to actively ignore the warnings of the [Starborn](Main%20Quest/Starborn.md) and the temporality of the universe. There should be an option to shut it down - become the killer of Starborn - stop the cycle. To save your own and all the infinity of other universes.

Now let's talk about this from a gameplay design perspective. Let's say I'm satisfied with one run of my playthrough and I don't want to play [NG+](Gameplay%20Systems/NG+.md). What is the ending do I get then? I arrive at the unity space bubble area and watch all the consequences of my actions and that's it. So the moment I killed the other starborns or simply persuaded them to collect all the Artifacts, that's the end of main quest? Cause if I complete the armillary and fire up the grav drive the only thing left to do is to decide to play NG+ or not.

Is that a satisfactory ending for collecting all the Artifacts? No answers to who created them or why? It's great to raise philosophical questions and make a player think. But as a game, it should give me an ending based on my choices that isn't an elaborate way of making me play [NG+](Gameplay%20Systems/NG+.md).

Bethesda games usually take you on a journey through their world, to see the highlights of the map they’re most proud of - the Greatest Hits. 

Starfield has gone back to the same planet we have already been to. I have been to Indum II for a [Temples](Main%20Quest/Temples.md) quest, and now we’re back for the [Pilgrim’s Rest](Main%20Quest/The_Pilgrim.md). And we STILL haven't ventured further right on the [Star-System_Map](Gameplay%20Systems/Star-System_Map.md) than Volii. 
All of these worlds, literally hundreds of them, and the entirety of the main quest is confined to 5-star systems. That’s like the whole of Skyrim’s MQ taking place in Riverun, or Morrowind’s on the Bitter Coast. Maybe don’t create an overly expansive explorable universe just for the sake of it?
	The jump to the glyph puzzle is quite far to the right of the map, into a Level 40 zone. Silly that we have to travel so far for a 1-minute puzzle and then travel back to a system just south of Alpha Centauri, though - I wanted to push further.

https://www.reddit.com/r/NoSodiumStarfield/comments/18im7u1/pilgrims_rest_drawings_but_in_high_res/
^ Lore images highlighting concept art and a very interesting use of NG+ we don't get to interact with (time travel), and possible illusions to either cut content, the origin of the Creator, or future DLC/sequels.

If you see this coming (and it's foreshadowed, if weakly) and refuse to engage, it is not honored as a decision,  the plot stops and tells you to reconsider. If you roll with it, the plot dissolves into the [NG+](Gameplay%20Systems/NG+.md) game mechanic and is never finished, no payoff at all. 
	If they *did* in fact intend the metagame to be the game, they failed miserably. I mean *really* miserably. You're never allowed to engage with it, it's practically a one-path visual novel. 
